The goal of this video is to learn how to isolate and investigate the individual attention heads in
a transformer.
It's actually not so difficult to do, but it does require a bit of thinking and careful coding.
And the other good news is that learning how to isolate attention heads is a great reminder of the attention
mechanism, and the idea of splitting up the attention equation into heads.
I will also, in this video, introduce you to a procedure called kernel density estimation or KDE.
This is a non-linear method to estimate smooth frequency spectra from limited or sparse data.
It's a great data science method to know about both in and outside the context of law.
Now, before I give an overview of the code demo, I'm going to give you a brief reminder of the attention
algorithm.
Just to make sure that you load back in all of the relevant memories from earlier in the course.
So I hope that this equation looks familiar.
This is the equation that describes the attention subblock of the transformer.
The goal of the attention subblock is to calculate the adjustments to the token embeddings vectors,
and the general idea of the attention Subblock is to integrate information across the tokens that come
before the currently processed token.
So the idea is to calculate dot products between the query vectors and the keys vectors.
And this denominator term here is just a scaling factor because these dot products here grow arbitrarily
with size.
So it's kind of like an averaging term if you will.
M here is a causal mask matrix that blanks out all of the future tokens, so that the model will only
pay attention to tokens in the past.
And the interpretation of this operation here is that the query vectors encode what the current token
is looking for, and the keys vectors encode what the previous tokens have to offer in terms of relevant
context and information.
Now these dot products these are not cosine similarities.
They're not probabilities.
They have an arbitrary scale that is related to the magnitude of the weights and the activations.
But then all of these results are pushed through this softmax function.
And that transforms these dot products into probability distributions, and that in turn determines
which of the columns in the values matrix get highlighted and which get suppressed, and then the w0
term at the end.
Here is a linear mixing matrix, and that basically takes all the outputs of the different attention
vectors and heads and mixes all of their information together.
So in this and the next couple of videos, we are only going to be focusing on the first part of this
algorithm, which is just the qk transpose operation, and then the masking and the softmax probabilities.
In the code demo I'm going to call this stuff inside the softmax the raw attention scores.
And then we will have the softmax ified version.
And those I will call the attention weights.
Because those values, Those numbers determine how the columns in V are weighted to calculate the adjustments
to the embedding vectors.
So next I would like to remind you of what this mask matrix looks like and what it means.
And that's what you see here.
So the mask starts off as a lower diagonal matrix of all ones.
So it's all ones on the diagonal and below the diagonal and all zeros above the diagonal.
So this provides the temporal causality because each row in this matrix maps onto a token in the sequence.
So when we are, for example, processing the fifth token, then all the tokens thereafter are ignored
in the attention algorithm.
And how is that implemented in practice?
Well, this matrix gets transformed into this one where all the zeros turn into minus infinities, and
then this matrix gets added onto that qk transpose matrix that I showed in the equation in the previous
slide.
And why do we want to add minus infinity.
Remember that softmax involves exponentiating and e to the minus infinity is zero.
So the weighting function that this matrix creates could look like this, where the weights across the
rows all sum to one, and all of the future tokens are zero.
So you can also see that the diagonal elements still have non-zero values, which means that the attention
algorithm can pay attention to the current token.
That's called self-attention.
And you will see what that looks like in the model when I switch to code.
Last thing I would like to point out here is that the very first token in the sequence has no context,
so there's no past to look at.
It can only implement self-attention.
There's no past context to load in.
You have already seen several times in the course that this first token in a sequence gives weird results.
And in this video, you're going to learn a little bit about why that is the case.
Okay, so now I've reminded you about the main attention algorithm and also about the temporal causality
mask.
Now I'm going to remind you about the attention heads.
Again nothing new in this slide I hope this is a screenshot of what you learned in section two.
So the idea is that these three attention matrices Q, k, and V are split up into like slices or chunks.
Now each of those slices processes all of the tokens in the sequence, and they all see all of the embeddings
dimensions, but they can learn to process the text in different ways, for example, focusing on different
time scales.
So different lengths, different context windows, or different features of the text.
Now in this case I am drawing four attention heads.
And in practice there's usually a couple dozen.
For example, Gpt2 small has 12 heads, and in the code challenge in the next video you will see that
the Pythia model has 32 heads.
Anyway, all of the heads are grouped into equal sizes like this.
So to extract the individual heads, all we need to do is split the matrices into equal sized sliced
matrices.
Now the Now, the orientation of these heads geometrically can be a little tricky to interpret.
Here I am depicting them as columns so as tall matrices, but they're actually two dimensional slabs
of data in practice because of the batch dimension in the Python video.
In this demo, I'm actually going to squeeze out the batch dimension.
And so then these will actually appear to be wide matrices and not tall matrices.
Anyway, don't take this visual depiction too literally.
The important thing to look at is the matrix sizes and slice along the dimensions, not along the tokens.
In other words, every attention head needs to see every token in a sequence.
And when you look at the sizes of the matrices, then I think it will be clear which dimension to split
the matrices along.
Anyway, I'll get back to that discussion in the code demo.
The last thing I will remind you about here, although it's not actually directly relevant for the code
demo, is that after all of the attention heads separately processed the tokens, they all get recombined
and then they get multiplied by this w0 matrix.
And that's the function of this matrix here.
All of these attention heads have learned different things.
They've been looking at the same text, but they've been learning different things about the context
and how the tokens relate to each other.
That said, there is a lot of overlap in what these different heads calculate.
So it's not that these attention heads are all orthogonal to each other, but they do focus on slightly
different features of the text.
And the W0 matrix mixes all of that information together.
Okay.
And that's the final attention adjustment that's get that gets added back onto the embeddings vectors.
Now let me tell you about what we'll do in the Python demo.
I will start by importing Gpt2 and hooking the qkv matrices before they are multiplied.
Now that stuff you've all seen before.
Then we have a sentence about Fiji that we will use for the code demo.
And after pushing this little bit of text through the model, I will grab the queue activations and
show you how we can split those into the different heads.
Now we have to know some variables that we get from the models config structure, including the dimensionality
of the heads and the number of heads.
When we have that information, we can confirm that splitting up the q matrix gives us 12 heads, and
each of those heads is of size 38 by 64.
38 is the token sequence dimension.
So there are 38 tokens in this sentence.
And then the 64 corresponds to the dimensionality of the heads, 64 times 12 is 768.
And of course, you know that that is the embeddings dimension of the small version of this GPT two
model.
And this size is what I was referring to in the previous slide about whether these heads matrices appear
to be wide or tall.
Again, don't worry so much about the matrix orientation.
Pay attention to the sizes.
Now we don't want to split up the matrices according to tokens.
We split according to dimensions.
Anyway, I will then calculate the means and standard deviations of the activations to the 38 tokens
in each head.
And then I'll make some plots like this.
Now I have to say, these plots are not terribly insightful or really that interesting.
We do not expect a lot of meaningful differences between the different heads at this aggregated scale
of averaging activations over all of the tokens in a sequence.
But the purpose of these analyses in this visualization is really just to show you some code for working
with the different heads that will increase your familiarity with how to split up and work with the
different heads.
By the way, all of the analyses in this code demo are actually just with one layer of the model.
Remember that all of the transformer blocks are split into heads.
So this is just one of the layers.
I think this was layer six or something.
But of course that's a parameter in the code you can play around with.
In the next video, you're going to look at some of the patterns for the different heads and then over
the different layers.
Anyway, uh, in this video, this demo, I will next calculate the raw attention scores within each
of these heads.
And that is the qk transpose dot products before they get softmax ified.
And that looks like this.
So interestingly all of these dot products are negative.
Now they're not trivially always 100% negative.
That's just how it happened to be for this layer and this text.
However, it is the case that the raw attention scores tend to be shifted towards negative values for
reasons that I will let you ponder for a little while, and then I'll discuss later in the code, and
also again in the next video.
Okay.
Now each dot in this plot here.
So each of these little green circles, that corresponds to one token pair and one of the 12, uh,
heads.
I also did a comparison analysis where I calculated the Q transpose dot products between the different
So this is all within the same heads.
And these are across different heads.
Now this is not a super realistic analysis because the different heads do not directly dot product each
other in practice in a working language model.
But it is an interesting distribution to look at because it shows that these dot products here are really
non-trivial.
And it also shows that there's a lot of similar processing across the different heads.
Now, these scores are not cosine similarities or correlations, but it would actually be really easy
to transform these into cosine similarities.
So in fact, you could actually see how much shared information there is across the different heads.
Anyway, these lines that you see here show the histograms of the raw attention scores, and you can
see that the scores within the same head are shifted towards negative numbers.
Again, I want you to start thinking about what that means and what implications this has for the attention
algorithm.
Okay.
Then uh, next I'm just going to focus in on these data points here.
So just the QK transpose from the same heads calculations and then separate the attention scores for
the final token to all the previous tokens.
The self-attention tokens which are the diagonals of the qk transpose matrix.
And then also I will separate the very first token in the sequence and that is what you see here.
So again this is only within each head.
So this is just a different way of organizing these results that you see in here.
Now here this is after adding the causal mask and also pushing the data through the softmax function.
And that's why the y axis values here range from 0 to 1.
And it's labeled softmax attention weights.
The green dots here show the softmax attention weights from the last token in the sequence to each of
the earlier tokens, but excluding itself.
And these become the probability values that will select a particular column or weight the different
columns in V.
And you can see that most of them are pretty close to zero, and very few have larger values.
And that highlights that attention the attention mechanism is pretty sparse, so most of the information
from previous tokens is suppressed and only a small number of tokens are activated and their information
is copied into the attention adjustment.
Now the self-attention ones over here in the middle.
These are the diagonals of the QQ transpose matrix that corresponds to the attention of each token to
itself.
So this one on the left is the token to all the previous tokens, and in the middle we have all the
tokens to themselves.
And then over here on the right, this is just the first token from the from each attention head.
So the first token in the sequence.
So the very first token onto itself.
And there is no previous context to integrate here.
And that's why you get all ones.
This is the only non infinity value in each row.
So of course it has an attention weight of one regardless of what the actual activation value is.
Okay.
Now this plot here shows the raw data.
These are the actual numbers.
And when we are pooling over all of the heads and just looking at one layer, that's what we're doing
here.
This is just one transformer block.
Then this is a great visualization.
But having scatter plots like this is not really scalable to separating the distributions for all of
the different layers, or looking at the different layers over time and seeing how these kinds of distributions
might change as we go deeper into the model.
So therefore I will introduce you to the KDE method.
The idea of a kernel density estimator is to consider that each of these individual points is like a
noisy estimate of a probability distribution.
So we take each of these numbers, plot it on a graph where the x axis of that graph corresponds to
the y axis of this plot.
And then we blur each of these data points with a Gaussian a Gaussian.
So we smooth it out a little bit.
And when we do that for all the dots.
So convolve all the dots with little Gaussians.
Then we sum them all up.
And we consider that to be the estimate of the probability distribution.
And that's what you see in this little demo here.
Now to be super clear this figure here is not coming from the real data.
This is a very simple toy example that I came up with.
So I just came up with these numbers.
It's only a couple of numbers just to show you the idea of the KDE procedure and the output and the
interpretation.
So let's say we have five actual data points, and I drew them here as red spikes.
Now each of those spikes gets convolved with a Gaussian.
And then you sum up over all of the Gaussians and that blue line that is our KDE.
And that's our estimate of the probability density of the sparse red spiky data.
Now, when I show you this demo in the code, that will help you understand what the KDE analysis is,
and also you'll see the code for how to implement it.
Then after showing you this little toy demo, I'm going to apply this method to the actual data that
I showed in this plot.
And that will give us this result here, where you can see that for this particular layer, for this
particular transformer layer, the the probability distributions are really strongly clustered towards
zero.
In fact, I cut off the y axis here, just so we can see these more subtle features down here.
And then, uh, yeah, the attention softmax weights for the final to the previous token has some bumps
at these higher values over here.
Now the code that generates these lines you will have to adapt in the next video, the next code challenge
to explore how these attention scores change over the different layers in a language model.
Okay.
That is the summary of the code demo.
There's a lot to do, a lot to unpack.
So I will now switch to Python and show you how all this stuff looks in code.
Here are all the typical libraries that we will use here.
I'm importing GPT two small.
We will use a larger model in the code challenge in the next video.
Let's see here.
We're going to need a couple of variables that are just convenience, because it's a bit easier to write
out n heads than to keep writing model dot config dot n head multiple times.
So here let's see.
Here I'm just printing out the config information for this model, just as a reminder of what these
variable names are.
So we have the number of heads that's in this variable.
Here we have the head dimension.
So that is the number of heads divided sorry the embeddings dimension divided by the number of heads.
And then I have this term square root of d.
That is the denominator.
That's what we normalize the qk transpose vectors by.
So again it's just a little more compact a little nicer to have this variable than to keep writing this
out multiple times.
So then we have discovered that there are 12 heads, each of which has 64 dimensions.
And when you multiply 12 times 64, you will not be surprised to see that the result is 768, which
is the number of embeddings dimensions in this model.
Okay, so now we need to hook implant a hook to get the activations from the attention layer.
So that is let me go back up here.
So what we want is H.
So a hidden layer we want attention and we want this one here C attention.
So that is the layer.
That's the information that we want to hook.
You will remember from earlier in the course that this matrix is of size 768 by 2304.
And this number corresponds to 768 times three.
And the three is for the, the q, the k and the V matrices that are augmented, they're just stacked
next to each other.
So we will grab these activations and then split them up according to Q, K and V, and then for each
of those, we need to split them again to get the separate heads.
Okay.
So bit of a reminder there.
And here you see I'm doing this for layer six.
Uh and why layer six I don't know.
It's sort of halfway through the model.
Get some interesting stuff happening there.
Uh, of course, I encourage you to play around with this.
You can see how it looks for different layers in the next video.
You're going to do this systematically.
You're going to explore, uh, over all of the layers.
Okay.
So, uh, hidden uh, and then we want attention.
C attention.
And then we just grab the output into this activations dictionary here.
Okay.
So run that code.
And then here is the text that I have copied.
Yeah.
It's one sentence about uh, the island of Fiji.
Here's the website.
Okay.
Tokenize push through the model.
Nothing super fancy here.
Uh, this is the only time that I'm running data through the model here.
Uh, in this code demo, we definitely do not need the GPU here.
Okay.
And then, as always, the first time you are testing, first time you're pushing through, uh, pushing
some data through a model, developing code, working on code and so on.
It's always a good idea to print out what these, uh, sizes are throughout the model.
So 38 tokens and 2304 dimensions.
And.
Yeah, I just explained where that number comes from.
Okay.
So now what we are going to do is split the data into these separate qkv matrices.
Uh, I'm hard coding this to be zero because this is the batch dimension.
Over here we only have one sequence.
So of course if you are pushing through batches of data multi sequence data, then you would need to
either have a for loop here, or reshape or do something to deal with this rather than just using the
first element in here.
Okay, now this is.
So I've shown you this torch dot split function before you input the matrix.
And then you input the number of embeddings, dimensions or whatever should be the size of the matrices
that you want to split.
And then you have to indicate the dimensionality.
Now this might look a little bit confusing here because dimension one actually corresponds to the token
dimension over here.
However, when I extract the first sequence over here, this now becomes a two dimensional matrix.
So if we would do it like this.
Now this code is incorrect.
We can try to run it and we're going to get an error.
And that's because yeah we cannot cut up 38 into 768.
68.
So what we could do is cut along the second dimension.
But now we still have this singleton dimension in here, which is just not very interesting.
So therefore when we run it like this, we get the first output of this function to be 38 by 768.
And of course, if you would look at the shapes of k and v you would see the same sizes.
I suppose the more general point that I would like to make here is always check sizes of matrices.
That is really going to help you understand what's going on.
It will help you avoid making mistakes and help you debug when you do have mistakes.
Okay, so this is not yet splitting into different heads.
This is the entire queue activations matrix.
So then I'm splitting again.
And now here I'm just splitting according to Q I'm no longer splitting the activations Invasions.
And now I'm splitting by head dimension.
And that gives us that there are length of this.
So there are 12 heads.
And each one of those.
This is a list.
Each one of those actually let me I can show you this.
So here you see it's a lot to print out.
But basically this is a tuple.
I'm sorry I said a second ago that it's a list.
It's a tuple.
And each element in the tuple is a is one of the heads.
So when we look at the length of that output we get 12 as we expect and the size is 38 by 64 also as
we expect.
Okay.
And now yeah.
So that's for q and now for k.
Now in this code I'm actually not dealing with the vs the values matrix.
So I'm just going to ignore those okay.
So now here I am calculating the means and standard deviations of the different heads over all of the
tokens.
So I'm looping over all of the elements in this tuple.
Q underscore h.
So all the different heads.
And then I'm just calculating the average of all the data.
Ignoring the first token.
So I'm just leaving out the first token.
So I'm getting the mean and the standard deviations.
So we can see how much variability there is in the different heads.
This is for Q and this is for k.
And then here I am just plotting that.
So here you see all of the average activations.
So this are the means in the the boxes.
And the bars indicate one standard deviation above and below the means.
And the green boxes are for the q heads.
The k circles are for sorry the red circles are for the k heads.
And yeah, as I mentioned in the slides, we don't really expect that much here.
Mostly I just want you to see a little bit of code to.
uh, yeah.
Just to give you a little bit more kind of visual and coding, uh, familiarity with working with the
different heads.
Okay.
So now we're going to start doing some more interesting things.
We can calculate the raw attention scores over all of the different tokens.
So here I am having a double for loop over all the heads.
And that's because for this particular analysis I'm calculating dot products between uh q and k matrices
from different heads.
So here you see these are dot products.
These are q and these are k.
And here I'm taking the transpose of k matrix multiplying by q.
Now I'm not doing in this particular analysis I'm not looking at all of the dot products.
We can worry about that later.
Here I'm just looking at the dot product between the final token.
So all of the dimensions and the head all the head dimensions.
Just the final token in queue with all of the previous tokens in Kay.
But I'm excluding the first token again because it's weird and I don't like it.
So there you go.
Uh, yeah.
So that's uh, QQ transpose.
Also, as I mentioned in the slides, it is.
So it's not completely wrong.
The thing is, uh, this dot product of the, uh, raw attention, raw activation values between the
different heads in Q and K, this is not something that models naturally do.
They naturally just, uh, calculate the dot products within each head, not across the different heads.
But I am also showing you the calculations across the different heads here.
Uh, partly as a reference, partly to show you that the results that we get within the same head are
not trivial.
They are meaningfully shifted negative, and also partly because it's interesting to see that the different
heads actually do have some overlap in the kinds of information that they calculate, as indicated by
the lack of zero valued dot products between different heads.
Okay.
So all that said, here I calculate the dot products.
If we are actually working in the same head.
Then I concatenate those data onto this variable.
Same head dot products.
And if they are different heads then I put them in this variable.
And then I'm just visualizing the data as a scatter plots and also as histograms.
And this is the plot that you have seen before.
Okay.
Now here's the question.
Why are these values shifted negative within the same head.
That is not trivial.
The fact that it's not trivial is clearly demonstrated by this distribution.
You know, if these numbers were also all zero, all negative.
Then we would say there's just something about, you know, these embeddings, vectors that they all
happen to be negatively dot product with each other.
That's not the case.
This distribution is like perfectly symmetric around zero visually.
So why are these values all zero.
Remember that these QQ values, these QQ dot products these get pushed through softmax.
And what happens when you push negative numbers through a softmax function.
They get suppressed.
They get pushed down to zero.
So all of these values here these go the probability values after softmax these get really really tiny.
They get pushed all the way down to zero.
Now in this case you see that there's not a single QQ transpose dot product that ends up being positive.
But you'll see later on in a moment and also in the next video that you do tend to find lots of clustering
negative, and then a small number of values that are further up here.
So there's going to be a small number of token pairs that really get highlighted in the softmax probability
calculation.
And most of the token pairs get suppressed.
That's what you want.
That's what these models learn to do okay.
So now let's focus on the softmax transformed activation values.
Here I just have one for loop over the heads.
And that's because I'm only calculating things inside each attention head.
So I'm not calculating dot products across the different heads in this case.
So q times k transpose divided by the square root of d.
This is what goes inside the softmax function.
And then of course we have the attention mask.
This you have all seen before Okay.
And then here we apply the softmax.
And then here I'm grabbing the softmax probability values of all of the tokens with the final token.
So I'm just isolating the final token in the sequence.
So the last word in the sentence.
And then looking at it with all of the previous tokens.
Okay.
And why just the last one.
I don't know because I felt like it.
We don't need so much data.
This is for demonstration purposes.
The last token in the sequence is often interesting to look at, because it has all the information
from the preceding context loaded onto it, modulating it.
Okay.
So then here I'm looking at self-attention.
So I'm just grabbing the diagonal of this softmax matrix.
So that is the self-attention of all the tokens with themselves.
And yeah that's what I do here.
And then here is Just isolating the very first token for each of the heads.
So this is all of the self tokens without the first token in the sequence.
And this is the self-attention for just the first token in the sequence.
All right.
Concatenating all of those so that we are pooling the information over all the heads.
And that's what produces this plot that I showed in the slides.
Okay.
So here you see that actually from these data we you know, there's a couple of little points here that
are pretty large.
So all of these negative values got suppressed down to zero again.
This means that after the first part of attention with the softmax thing, when these numbers will multiply
the columns in V, then most of V gets suppressed, most of V is ignored, and just a small number of
columns in V are really getting highlighted here.
And yeah of course here with the self-attention on the first token, there's no context.
There's no prior tokens.
The attention algorithm has no choice but to take all of the information from V that is related to that
first token.
So it's always going to act a little weird like this.
Coming up to the final part of this code demo is the kernel density estimator.
Okay.
So this first little bit of code here, this actually doesn't this is not using any of the LM data.
This is just a simple demo.
So you can see how it works.
So here is what I do I come up with some sparse data.
These are numbers that I just popped out of thin air because I thought they would look good for this
particular demo.
And then what?
But yeah.
Anyway, when you run the analysis, this actually comes from your real data.
So this vector here is going to be these numbers over here okay.
Then you need to define a high resolution grid to estimate the distribution.
So here I'm going from minus two to plus two.
You can see that's a little bit outside of this range.
That turns out to be the x axis range over here.
So that here this is the x axis grid for the frequency estimation that corresponds to the softmax values
for softmax.
That is always going to range from 0 to 1.
Okay.
Then from the scipy.stats library we take stats Gaussian KDE, input the data and define a bandwidth
parameter.
And that is basically a smoothing parameter.
I will talk more about that in a moment.
And then once you have this object, this instance, you simply input the grid values that you want
and then you get the heights.
And that is why.
So then I'm just plotting the x grid by Y.
And that's how we get this.
Now, how do you know how wide this Gaussian should be?
That is this bandwidth parameter here.
So I can set it.
Let's set it to like 0.02.
That's a bit extreme but it is illustrative.
So you can see the Gaussians are tighter.
They're also taller because yeah we are preserving density here.
And you can also see here the three individual peaks corresponding to the sum of the three Gaussians
here.
Okay.
So that's a little bit too much.
Maybe we can set this to 0.8.
Then you can see what this looks like.
That's probably too much.
You can just go completely bonkers and set this to 1.8 totally uninformative.
This is a ridiculously large value.
That said, so when you have a small amount of data, like in this toy example, it's probably yeah,
you will need to either play around and explore different parameters or define this parameter based
on some a priori theoretical consideration.
That said, if you do not have a tiny amount of data, if you have a lot of data.
A sufficient amount of data, it's often best just to leave this parameter to.
Be at its default value.
You can see for this that's actually a little bit too much smoothing.
So that's why I set this to be 0.2.
And yeah I just set that because I think this looks nice for the plot.
Okay.
So that was the toy demo.
Now we're going to do this for reals.
So now I'm defining softmax x.
This is a high resolution grid to estimate the distribution of all of the individual softmax attention
data values goes from 0 to 1 in 300 steps.
So basically I'm taking this y axis here and cutting this up into 300 bins.
And then we will count the number of these data points that goes into each individual bin.
And then we will convolve those counts.
That bar plot with a histogram.
And uh, yeah.
So all of this code is the same as the code to create this plot.
Now here I'm actually going to run this twice.
So I create this for the final to final token to the previous tokens and also for the self-attention.
Now because the sample size is differ here, uh, the, the density estimates are going to have different
y axis values.
So that's why I'm dividing it by the max.
That's just a normalization.
So that the maximum value is one.
And you can see that uh here.
So if I don't set the y axis limit you can see this is what the distribution looks like.
Again these are smoothed estimates of this distribution here.
So all of these distributions and this distribution for the self-attention.
Okay.
But these values are so large.
And these values are so small that I thought it would be nice just to cut off the y axis here, just
so we can see a little bit of the subtleties down here.
In the next video we're going to be calculating these lines for all of the layers.
Remember this is just one layer one transformer block.
So we'll get these lines for all the layers.
And we'll do some different visualizations where we won't actually need to do this kind of, uh, this
business of cutting off the plot early.
Okay.
I realized that this was a long video, but I hope you feel that it was worth your attention and your
time in general.
The raw attention scores are going to be shifted to negative, because when the model is processing
a given token and trying to determine what the next token should be.
You really want it to suppress most of the tokens, and that's because most of the individual tokens
should not be weighted so strongly they're not that relevant.
Of course, there are exceptions like pronouns need to tag a particular noun so the model knows what
word it refers to.
Same thing for adjectives.
Those need to have a very strong weight to one particular other word or other token.
In general, there are lots of exquisitely detailed analyses that you can start to run once you are
comfortable with isolating the different heads and working with the attention algorithm.
The code challenge in the next video will continue along these lines, not getting into really granular
amount of detail, but expanding what you learned here to visualizing the attention distributions over
different layers.